{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
\readonlydoc1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 ArialMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green5\blue85;\red1\green158\blue110;
}
\vieww14000\viewh13360\viewkind0
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\qc

\f0\b\fs72 \cf0 Chicken of the VNC\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\qc

\fs36 \cf0 brawwwK!
\f1\b0\fs20 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc
\cf0 VNCViewer written by Helmut Maierhofer \cf2 \ul helmut.maierhofer@chello.at\cf0 \ulnone \
Mac OS X port and cheesy name by Jason Harris\cf2  \ul support@geekspiff.com
\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\qc

\f2\fs20 \cf2 \ul http://cotvnc.sourceforge.net/
\f1\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul About Chicken of the VNC
\fs24 \ulnone \

\f1\b0 \
Chicken of the VNC is a VNC client for Mac OS X.  A VNC client allows one to display and interact with a remote computer screen.  In other words, you can use Chicken of the VNC to interact with a remote computer as though it's right next to you.\
\
Chicken of the VNC was written by Helmut Maierhofer for OpenStep on Intel and Jason Harris (the author of this document) ported it to the Cocoa API on Mac OS X.  Helmut's original version was called VNCViewer, but as there are already several VNC programs on Mac OS X with this name, I decided to save some confusion and call it by this horrible Chicken name instead.  \
\
More information about VNC can be found at AT&T's compendium: \cf2 \ul http://www.uk.research.att.com/vnc/.  \cf0 \ulnone \
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul Using Chicken of the VNC
\fs24 \ulnone \

\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural
\cf3 Note:  If you have used a version of Chicken of the VNC prior to 1.3, you will need to either delete your preferences (in ~/Library/Preferences/com.geekspiff.chickenofthevnc.plist), or reset the modifier key mappings in all of your stored profiles.  If you wish, you may also delete the "Chicken of the VNC" folder in your preferences, as it is no longer used.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
Use it just like any other VNC client - enter the address of a working VNC server, the display number (or port) and your password and rock'n'roll...\
\
VNC server programs on Windows machines tend to default to display number 0, while VNC servers on Mac OS X tend to use display number 1.  If you can't connect, you can try switching the display number between these two values.  Display numbers greater than 10 are interpreted as a port number.\
\
You can also check AT&T's web page (given above) for additional configuration information.\
\
Since I didn't write Chicken of the VNC, getting tech support from me might be fairly difficult :)\
\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul Using Profiles
\fs24 \ulnone \

\f1\b0 \
You can use profiles to store settings for an individual VNC server or for a class of servers.  For example, you might want to use full-color display for a server that is on your local area network, but drop down to 8-bit display for a remote machine.  \
\
You can also use profiles to specify your default encoding.  VNC operates by transferring an image of the screen from the server to the client.  This obviously requires lots of bandwidth.  The better the encoding that you use to transfer this information, the less "lag" you'll experience while using the Chicken.  \
\
The different encodings are (in rough order of efficiency)\
	Tight (but Tight encoding is not completely stable, see the Known Problems section)\
	Hextile\
	CoRRE\
	RRE\
	Raw\
\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul Mouse Button Emulation
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\
If you are one of those cursed with a single button mouse, you can emulate the second button by quickly tapping the <Control> key.  The mouse pointer will change to indicate that clicks will act like the second mouse button.  Likewise, you can emulate the third button by quickly tapping the <Shift> key.  To cancel emulation, tap the key a second time.\
\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul Full Screen Display
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\
The Chicken can be toggled in and out of full screen display by pressing the keyboard combination command-option-control-`.  The 'command' key is also known as the 'Apple' key.  The back-quote (`) is the character immediately to the left of the number '1' on American keyboards.  \
\
If this key combination interferes with your work, or is not convenient on international keyboards, please let me know and I'll make it customizable.\
\
While in full screen mode, you cannot interact with the Dock or with any other programs running locally on your Macintosh.  If the remote screen is larger than your local screen, the display will 'auto-scroll' when the mouse is close the edge of the screen.  The scrolling speed and the presence of scrollbars can be adjusted in the preferences.\
\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul I Get Strange Characters When I Type\

\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
Different operating systems interpret keystrokes to mean different things.  Although standardization is in the works, not all servers are fully standardized.  \
\
Older versions of Chicken of the VNC tried to account for this difficulty by interrupting your VNC session to ask you to type certain keystrokes.  Version 1.3 attempts to automate this process.  If it doesn't work, please let me know.\
\
Helmut, the original author, has included a readme dealing with this issue.  See the \cf4 ReadMe (Keymappings)\cf0  file.  Note, however, that it is not very relevant in versions later than 1.3.\
\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul How 'Bout CTRL-ALT-DEL and Other Strange Combos?
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\
Windows machines commonly use the CTRL-ALT-DEL keystroke.  You can send this keystroke by simply hitting the keys that map to it.  In the default configuration, this is CTRL-CMD-DEL (the CMD key is also referred to as the Apple key).\
\
On machines that don't have a DEL key (such as recent PowerBooks and iBooks), you can use the function key and the ordinary delete key.  In the default configuration, you would use CTRL-CMD-FN-DELETE.\
\
Likewise, to send Alt-F4 on a laptop (where F4 is mapped to sound volume), you can CMD-FN-F4.\
\
You can see additional uses for the Function key at\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 \ul http://developer.apple.com/techpubs/hardware/Developer_Notes/Macintosh_CPUs-G4/PowerBook_G4_11Oct01/3Input-Output/Keyboard_.html\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul Known Problems
\fs24 \ulnone \

\f1\b0 \
Tight encoding is not stable.  You can receive "Inflate errors" that terminate your connection.  You can reconnect immediately, but it's annoying.  \
\
When connecting to an OSXvnc server using Tight encoding, you will receive an inflate error immediately.  To work around this, you can switch to another encoding, connect, disconnect immediately, switch back to Tight encoding and reconnect.  You will still be disconnected with an Inflate error eventually, but it may take several hours.\
\
Another option is to set your profile to use 8-bit color instead of the server's local color-model.  This is a good idea anyway, as it will give you increased performance.\
\
We are working on resolving this issue.\
\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul Source Code
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\
Because this program is distributed under the GNU license, source code is available for it.  If you're interested in contributing to Chicken of the VNC, it is hosted collaboratively on SourceForge.  The address is\
\cf2 \ul http://cotvnc.sourceforge.net/\cf0 \ulnone \
\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul Version History
\fs24 \ulnone \

\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f3 \cf0 \ul Version 1.3.1 (October 24, 2002)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \'a5 Again supports versions of Mac OS X lower than 10.2.\
\'a5 Improved connection issues when using Tight encoding, although it's still buggy.\
\'a5 Added support for entry of a port number instead of a display number.\
\'a5 Fixed a bug that caused Chicken to crash on machines with Unsanity's FruitMenu installed.\
\'a5 Chicken is now hosted on SourceForge.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ul Version 1.3 (October 8, 2002)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \'a5 Added a full-screen, auto-scrolling mode and associated preference settings.  \
\'a5 Connection windows no longer default to being larger than your main screen.\
\'a5 Windows now initially appear scrolled to the top-left instead of the bottom left.\
\'a5 You are no longer prompted to type a key without a modifier when you type special characters.  \
\'a5 Revamped the text sending engine.\
\'a5 Arrow keys are no longer sent twice.\
\'a5 Revamped and reorganized the profile window so that it makes more sense for Mac OS X (and follows the Aqua guidelines).  Also, the profile window could now be localized if someone felt the urge to do it (it no longer uses string constants).  However, this change means that previous users will either need to reset their modifier keymappings in all of their profiles, or delete their preferences.\
\'a5 Changed the rectangle drawing options in the Preference window so that they more accurately reflect behaviour on Mac OS X.\
\'a5 The rectangle drawing options in the Preferences window now show their current value.  Previously, they always showed the default value, although they used whatever value had been set.\
\'a5 Synced with Helmut's 1.2.5 release.  This adds the ability to paste a file's path into your VNC window by dragging the corresponding file into the window (untested).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f3 \cf0 \ul Version 1.2.3 (March 22, 2002)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \'a5 Initial Mac OS X release.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul Distribution and License Agreement
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\
Chicken of the VNC is released under the GNU license.  \
\
Chicken of the VNC is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\
\
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.\
\
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.\
\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul Contact Information
\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f3 \cf0 You can always get the latest versions of Chicken of the VNC, news and updates at the Source Forge web site:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc

\f2\fs20 \cf2 http://cotvnc.sourceforge.net
\f3\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 To get support on Chicken of the VNC, you can submit a support request\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc

\f2\fs20 \cf2 http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=507160&group_id=64347&func=browse\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f3\fs24 \cf0 To submit an idea or suggestion for Chicken of the VNC, use this address:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc

\f2\fs20 \cf2 http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=507162&group_id=64347&func=browse\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc

\f3 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 Alternately, if you prefer email, you can contact:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc

\f2\fs20 \cf2 feedback@geekspiff.com\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc

\f3 \cf0 \
VNCViewer Copyright (\'a9) 1998-2000 Helmut Maierhofer\
This Readme Copyright (\'a9) 2002 Geekspiff and Jason Harris\
All Rights Reserved}